The Department of Energy has recently released a document outlining steps forward
for its dynamic fuel cycle analysis campaign entitled the Dynamic Systems
Analysis Report for Nuclear Fuel Recycle \cite{dixon_dynamic_2008}. This
document outlines a recycle scenario including fast reactors and recycled fuel
fabrication. Such a scenario will be used a baseline for implementation of this
proposed work.

As an initial step, the dynamic resource exchange framework proposed in
\S\ref{sec:agent-interaction} will be implemented. This will allow for basic
decision making when facilities have more than one possible input or output in
the \Cyclus simulation framework. In order to demonstrate the nature of the
preferential market exchange as outlined in \S\ref{sec:gfctp-lp}, the same
scenario will be run with multiple institutions involved. A successful
implementation will show changing material flows based on varying preferences,
and will demonstrate the ease with which such institutional and regional
modeling can be achieved with such a final product. With the linear programming
formulation complete, the integer programming formulation described in
\S\ref{sec:gfctp-ip} will be implemented and investigated. Key items of concern
is the increased computation time resulting from the MILP formulation and the
degree to which it is required, i.e., the degree to which orders are split in an
actual simulation. Finally, the fidelity of recycled fuel orders will be
investigated by implementing the RAP as proposed in \S\ref{sec:RAP}. Comparisons
will be made between this model and the aggregate flow and equivalence models
currently implemented by other simulators as summarized in
\S\ref{sec:sim-summary}.
