Fuel cycle simulators have a number of possible output metrics of interest, and
the Department of Energy has initiated a number of exercises to discuss them
through its Systems Analysis campaign \cite{nutt_proposed_2012,
taiwo_summary_2012}. Individual metrics, however, can largely be grouped into
four categories: economics, waste management, sustainability, and proliferation.

One of the original reasons that fuel cycle simulators were developed was to
determine the relative cost of different fuel cycles. It must be stressed that
the notion of predicting future fuel cycle costs have a high degree of
uncertainty. They depend not only on the level of maturity of technologies as a
function of time (i.e., the R\&D investment level for the technology), but also
on material costs which are relatively unknown and/or very hard to
predict. Accordingly, it helps to determine relative costs of fuel cycles rather
than absolute costs of fuel cycles. Further, it helps to classify fuel cycles by
the technology used in them.

Waste management metrics include a measurement of repository capacities. The
capacity of a repository to store spent fuel could be reached in a number of
ways. Spent fuel isotopics, especially fission products, produce a large amount
of decay heat which can reach the thermal limits of their containers over short
periods of (geologic) time. There are also radiotoxicity limits for repositories
in order to limit the risk of radiological releases. Finally, there are mass and
volume limits on repositories, representing a space storage capacity. In fact,
the Nuclear Waste Policy Act, the current U.S. law determining the U.S.'s used
fuel management strategy, places a blanket mass capacity limit of 70,000 t on
Yucca Mountain \cite{us_nuclear_1982}.  It is not clear at the current time
which of these limiting capacities will ultimately be the governing
engineering-based limiting factor for repositories. Furthermore these capacities
change based on repository layout and geology.  This parameter was key in
Scopatz's work with static fuel cycle simulation
\cite{scopatz_essential_2011}. In all cases, these capacities can be calculated
in terms of isotopic quantities of waste products. 

Another key metric that is important to many in the fuel cycle simulation
community is uranium utilization, which measures the sustainability of a given
fuel cycle. At present, the United States political stance is to continue the
once-through fuel cycle until it is economically viable to begin reprocessing
spent fuel for recycle in reactors \cite{hamilton_blue_2012}. Such a situation
can only arise if the supply of uranium dwindles to a low-enough level which
will raise the price of uranium sufficiently to make reprocessing a viable
alternative. It is additionally interesting to note the approximate time at
which uranium capture from sea water, which is in developmental stages, will
become economically viable. These situations all depend on the amount of uranium
used in a given simulation, which is, of course, related to fuel mass flows.

Proliferation based metrics are generally functions of the amount of separated
transuranic material at any point in the fuel cycle. Metrics that measure
negative proliferation resistance include the amount of significant quantities
of material, defined by the IAEA to be the quantity of any given material (e.g.,
TRU or plutonium) sufficient to make a nuclear weapon. These are generally
defined on the elemental level, which ignores realities based on isotopic
dependencies (e.g., \nucl{240}{Pu} is a relatively large source of decay heat
and is thus reduces the aggregate plutonium's effectiveness for use as a
weapon). Metrics that measure positive resistance of proliferation activities
include the unshielded dose rate of a given material, which makes handling (and
thus diverting) the material more difficult \cite{yacout_vision_2006}.

In general, fuel cycle simulators can provide metrics at the end of a simulation
or they can be used to enhance decision making during a simulation. Most metrics
outside the actual instantiation of facilities (i.e., which facilities are built
when) and the flow of material, which are integral to the running of the
simulation, can be post processed. They are only required to be maintained
during the simulation if the some aspect of the simulation depends upon
them. Accordingly, unless decisions are being made on the basis of costs, there
is no reason to maintain a cost metric at simulation time. Simulators can
generally be divided into two groups, those that make decisions at run time
based on certain metrics and those that do not. \Cyclus is designed to provide
dynamic support of metric-based decision making, e.g., Huff's recent work with
dynamic repository capacity determination
\cite{huff_integrated_2013}.
