The Verifiable Fuel Cycle Simulation (VISION) code is developed at the Idaho
National Lab (INL) and is a Powersim \cite{studio_powersim_2003} application
with input and output functionality provided through Excel spreadsheets. Like
VENSIM, Powersim is a systems dynamics coding platform. The original VISION code
base was taken from the DYMOND \cite{moisseytsev_dymond_2001} after internal
memory limits were reached in its application language, Stella
\cite{clauset_stella_1987}. VISION explicitly models reactors, separations, fuel
fabrication, storage and repository facilities. ``Front end'' facilities,
i.e. mining, conversion, and enrichment facilities, are not explicitly modeled
\cite{guerin_benchmark_2009}. The stated goal of VISION is two-fold, to
investigate infrastructure requirements for various fuel cycles (termed ``what
if'' scenarios) \cite{jacobson_verifiable_2010} and to investigate upset
scenarios, e.g. a loss of a fuel fabrication facility, and corresponding
mitigation strategies \cite{schweitzer_improved_2008}.

VISION, like CAFCA, uses a system dynamics methodology to model the nuclear fuel
cycle. Accordingly, there is a notion of stocks of materials, reactors,
supporting facilities, etc., and flows of materials between those
facilities. Also similar to CAFCA, VISION uses a lookahead function to assess
the future state of the simulation in order to make decisions at some
time. Accordingly, reactors are only built if there will be adequate fuel
available for them. The main user input to a VISION calculation is the required
electricity demand to be met by nuclear power. Users also specify a preference
of reactors to meet this power demand (e.g. 80\% fast reactor, 20\% LWR);
however due to the symbiotic nature of the input fuel dependence of fast
reactors on LWRs and the basic VISION assumption that all reactors will be
fueled for their entire lifespan, the user-preferred distribution may not always
be met. Users also must define all input and output material characteristics for
reactors as well as other facility-level parameters (power level, capacity
factor, etc.). Time steps in VISION are 3 months long, breaking a year into four
time steps.

VISION maintains records for 81 different isotopes. The planning algorithm for
recycled reactor fuel, however, concentrates on a small subset of isotopes
termed ``control isotopes''. The control isotopes for any given simulation are
user-defined input, and choices include individual plutonium isotopes, all
plutonium isotopes, and all transuranic isotopes. Interestingly, VISION also
allows material in any storage buffer to decay if it has resided there for
longer than a year. It is not clear how the changing of fuel isotopics affects
the lookahead calculation. All material-based output metrics operate on these
isotopes. For example, proliferation resistence is measured by the amount of
plutonium isotopes or transuranics at any point in the fuel cycle
\cite{yacout_vision_2006}.

Importantly, VISION has no transmutation engine to determine output fuel
isotopics. Instead, a lookup table is used, scanning pre-calculated isotopic
vectors and interpolating based on fuel type and ``key input parameters''
\cite{jacobson_verifiable_2010}. In general, input fuel recipes are defined and
then output fuel recipes are determined based on burnup for LWR UOX fuel and
conversion ratio for fast reactor fuel. Accordingly, input fuel recipes must be
known \textit{a priori} and physics calculations must be run to populate the
database to be interpolated agaisnt. Again, it is not clear how isotopic decay
is involved in determining perturbations to the input fuel recipes, if it is at
all.

Schweitzer provides a look at the facility ordering methodology in his master's
thesis \cite{schweitzer_improved_2008}. Understanding this methodology is
important to understanding how VISION works, so I will present a short review
below. There are a few important assumptions worked into the methodology. The
first is that the only limiting factor on reactor fuel supply is used LWR fuel,
i.e., there is no limiting factor on fresh UOX. Secondly, it is assumed that
reactors have a known fuel usage over their lifetime and that this usage is
divided into fuel of different integral pass numbers. Put another way, fast
reactors begin with some fuel isotopic makeup and each successive refueling is
comprised of a different isotopic makeup, up to some limit. In Schweitzer's
work, and more generally in the VISION literature, this limit is five
passes. This is VISION's way of modeling an approach to an equilibrium reactor
core isotopic makeup. The pathway for reactor fuel is hard-coded into the
methodology via its prediction calculation. 

%%% getting kind of stuck here, I'm just going to write down the equations and revise

Fast reactors are ordered based on one of two constraining parameters. The first
is the user-defined preferred distribution, and the second is fast reactor fuel
availability. Given some lookahead parameter, $\Delta t$, the number of fast
reactors that will be ordered at the lookahead time, $t + \Delta t$, is

\begin{equation*}
N_{FBR}\left(t+\Delta t\right) = min \left( N_{FBR,E}\left(t+\Delta t\right),N_{FBR,SF}\left(t+\Delta t\right)\right),
\end{equation*}

where the user-defined parameter is based on the user-provided distribution
percentage $p_{FBR}$, the rated power for that type of reactor, $P_{FBR}$, and
an energy ``gap'', i.e., the amount of energy required in the simulation as
defined by the user less the current amount of energy in the simulation at the
lookahead time,

\begin{equation*}
N_{FBR,E}\left(t+\Delta t\right) = 
                        \lceil \frac{p_{FBR} \Delta E (t + \Delta t)}
                                    {P_{FBR}} \rceil .
\end{equation*}

The number of fast reactors that can be built based fuel availability is a
function of the amount of available spent fuel, $SF(t)$, and the amount
of material required to fuel a reactor for its lifetime,

\begin{equation*}
N_{FBR,SF}\left(t+\Delta t\right) = 
                        \lceil \frac{SF(t)}
                                    {F^{LWR_SF}_{Total}} \rceil .
\end{equation*}

The above equation allows some insight into the inner workings of VISION. First
of all, it keeps a running tally of available spent fuel for a given reactor
type, $SF(t)$ above. This is an aggregate parameter for the fleet of
reactors. Secondly, a lifetime's worth of fuel is effectively set aside whenever
a reactor is introduced in the simulation, as can be insinuated by the fact that
the spent fuel is assessed at time $t$ rather than $t + \Delta t$. This means
that a fast reactor can only enter the simulation at the lookahead time if there
is enough fuel for it at the present time. Furthermore, there is in fact a
notion of mortgaged spent fuel in VISION, i.e., spent fuel set aside for future
reactors, and unmortgaged spent fuel in VISION, i.e., spent fuel produced but
not yet mortgaged,

\begin{equation*}
SF(t) = SF_u(t) - SF_m(t),
\end{equation*}

where the mortgaged spent fuel is, of course, a function of the number of
reactors to be built in the future and how much spent fuel they use,

\begin{equation*}
SF_m(t) = SF_m(t - \Delta t_sim) + N_{FBR}(t + \Delta t) F^{LWR_SF}_{Total},
\end{equation*}

with $\Delta t_sim$ denoting the simulation time step.

The amount of fuel required for a fast reactor's lifetime is based on VISION's
assumption of fuel behavior of ``passing through'' the reactor multiple
times. For each ``pass'', $p$, the amount of fuel reloaded, $FL^p_{FBR}$, into
the core may be different both at loading and unloading. The amount of total
required fuel is defined as

\begin{equation*}
\begin{aligned}
F^{LWR_SF}_{Total} & = N_{b,FBR} FL^1_{FBR} + \Delta t_p FL^1_{FBR} w^1_{FBR} \\
                   & + \sum_{p=2}^{5} \Delta t_T (FL^p_{FBR,in} w^p_{FBR,in} - FL^{p-1}_{FBR,out} w^{p-1}_{FBR,out}) \\
                   & + (\Delta t_{FBR,l} - 4 \Delta t_T - \Delta t_p) (FL^5_{FBR,in} w^5_{FBR,in} - FL^{5}_{FBR,out} w^{5}_{FBR,out}),
\end{aligned}
\end{equation*}

where $N_{b,FBR}$ is the number of fuel batches, each $w^p$ is the weight
percent of the control isotope(s) in the spent fuel, $\Delta t_p$ is the
pipeline time required for fuel exiting the reactor to be put back in it
(storage, separation and fabrication time), $\Delta t_T$ is the same but also
include the time in the reactor (the total cycle time), and $\Delta t_{FBR,l}$
is the reactor's lifetime. Note that all of these parameters are defined
implicitly or explicitly by user input. Furthermore, note that this amount has
units of \textit{mass of the control isotope(s)}, implying that VISION works on
mass balances of those isotopes. Finally, note that VISION treats all recycled
LWR spent fuel as an aggregate mass, whether it is UOX, MOX, or inert matrix
fuel (IMF).

It is entirely possible that the fast reactor builds will be limited by the
available fuel. In such cases, VISION still guarantees that the ``power gap''
will be closed.