\chapter{Experiments \& Results}\label{ch:results}

Given a parameterized framework for generating instances of resource exchanges,
experiments are designed and executed to explore the efficiency and quality of
solutions provided by different solvers. \secref{results:setup} describes the
experimentation apparati, including the computational tools, solvers and
relevant output. Two experimental campaigns were conducted. A scaling campaign,
described in \secref{results:scale}, was performed in order to investigate
formulation behavior as a function of problem size. \secref {results:stochastic}
then describes the results of a stochastic campaign. Finally, a summary of
findings is provided in \secref{results:sum}.

\input{./chapters/4-results/setup}

\input{./chapters/4-results/scale}

\input{./chapters/4-results/stochastic}

\section{Summary}\label{results:sum}

The performance and output of the Greedy heuristic, \clp solver, and \cbc solver
was tested on a large number of exchange graph instances. Linear-like, i.e.,
$\mathcal{O}(n\log{}\frac{n}{N})$, problem-size scaling was confirmed for the
Greedy heuristic, $\mathcal{O}(n^2)$-like scaling was observed for most
\clp-solved instances, and exponential scaling was observed for instances solved
with \cbc. The Greedy heuristic performs quite well even for realistic, large
NFCTP instances, solving in tens of seconds on the testing system. \cbc was
found to be largely sporadic. Many instances solved quite quickly; however,
outliers were observed in almost all experiments that greatly increased average
solution time. 

The translation between exchange graph to NFCTP-instance was found be quite
sensitive. Both the false arc cost and the cost translation function were found
to have a large effect on preference-based metrics. Some \cbc solutions with a
high false arc cost were observed to be worse than Greedy solutions in
preference space. This effect was largely mitigated by reducing false arc
cost. 

This work has shown that resource exchange instances can be solved reliably and
optimally in \Cyclus with open-source MILP solvers, even if those solutions may
take a relatively long time. Many \Cyclus users will likely find heuristics to
be acceptable for their work, especially for analyses requiring a large number
of fuel cycle simulations. Users will be empowered, however, to solve a
reference simulation optimally, for example, and compare results with
simulations using a heuristic. The user can then either continue to solve
resource exchanges optimally with different options, such as running time
restrictions or loosened convergence criteria, or change to a heuristic. This
capability represents a novel step forward in simply modeling nuclear fuel
cycles as well as analyzing dynamic effects within a given fuel cycle.
